docs/constitution/treaties.md, before:

# Treaties

Here shown are the treaties past and present (treaties no longer in effect are crossed out). You can find the archive of all treaties [here](https://github.com/CivYoahtl/civyoahtl.github.io/tree/main/docs/public/storage).

[[toc]]

## ~~Ascension of Southshire~~

Yoahtl signed the [Ascension of Southshire](pathname:///storage/treaties/southshire-ascension.pdf) treaty allowing Southshire to join as an autonomous town.

- Signed 14th January 2018
- Voided 25th August 2018

## ~~Charter for the Southern Area Treaty Organisation~~

Yoahtl agreed to the terms of the [Charter for the Southern Area Treaty Organisation](pathname:///storage/treaties/southern-area-treaty-organisation.pdf).

- Signed Spring 2018 (the exact date when this was signed is unclear, and there seems to be no enthusiasm from those in the know to check)

## ~~Treaty of Okatu~~

Yoahtl signed the [Treaty of Okatu](pathname:///storage/treaties/okashima-ascension.pdf) ([accessible version](pathname:///storage/treaties/okashima-ascension-accessible.pdf)) allowing the Kingdom of Okashima to join as a non-autonomous town.

- Signed 24th August 2019
- The arrangements of the treaty were changed with [The Great Coup of Okashima](https://www.reddit.com/r/CivYoahtl/wiki/laws#wiki_.287rnh.29_the_great_coup_of_okashima=).

## ~~Treaty of Odresh~~

Yoahtl signed the [Treaty of Odresh](pathname:///storage/treaties/odresh-ascension.pdf) allowing Odresh to join as a non-autonomous town.

- Signed 28th August 2019

## ~~Merger with Vinland~~

Yoahtl signed the [Merger with Vinland](pathname:///storage/treaties/vinland-ascension.pdf) treaty allowing Vinland to join as an autonomous town.

- Signed 28th September 2019
- Voided 18th May 2020

## ~~Condemning Obby Bombing~~

Yoahtl signed the [International Resolution to Condemn Obsidian Bombing](pathname:///storage/treaties/condemning-obby-bombing.pdf) treaty.

- Signed 7th December 2019

## ~~Joining the UDF~~

Yoahtl agreed to the terms of the [Charter of the United Defense Front](pathname:///storage/treaties/united-defense-front.pdf).

- Signed 28th February 2020

## ~~Forum for International Diplomacy~~

Yoahtl signed the [Charter of the Forum for International Diplomacy](pathname:///storage/treaties/forum-for-international-diplomacy.pdf) treaty as a founding member.

- Signed 4th March 2020

## ~~Treaty of Terestai~~

Yoahtl signed the [Treaty of Terestai](pathname:///storage/treaties/ashelor-ascension.pdf) allowing Ashelor to join as a non-autonomous town.

- Signed 7th August 2020
- Voided 12th October 2020

## Sylvia Agreement

Yoahlt signed the [Sylvia Agreement](pathname:///storage/treaties/sylvia-agreement.pdf) treaty allowing the Sylvia Province to join Yoahtl.

- Signed 20th February 2023

## Treaty of Capitum

Yoahtl signed the [Treaty of Capitum](pathname:///storage/treaties/treaty-of-capitum.pdf) allowing Capitum to join as a homestead.

- Signed 21st March 2023

## Treaty of Exilus

Yoahtl signed the [Treaty of Exilus](pathname:///storage/treaties/treaty-exilus-incorperation.pdf) allowing Exilus to join as a homestead.

- Signed 2nd May 2023

Commit message:

add Regional Welfare, Development and Safety Treaty

docs/constitution/treaties.md, after:

# Treaties

Here shown are the treaties past and present (treaties no longer in effect are crossed out). You can find the archive of all treaties [here](https://github.com/CivYoahtl/civyoahtl.github.io/tree/main/docs/public/storage).

[[toc]]

## ~~Ascension of Southshire~~

Yoahtl signed the [Ascension of Southshire](pathname:///storage/treaties/southshire-ascension.pdf) treaty allowing Southshire to join as an autonomous town.

- Signed 14th January 2018
- Voided 25th August 2018

## ~~Charter for the Southern Area Treaty Organisation~~

Yoahtl agreed to the terms of the [Charter for the Southern Area Treaty Organisation](pathname:///storage/treaties/southern-area-treaty-organisation.pdf).

- Signed Spring 2018 (the exact date when this was signed is unclear, and there seems to be no enthusiasm from those in the know to check)

## ~~Treaty of Okatu~~

Yoahtl signed the [Treaty of Okatu](pathname:///storage/treaties/okashima-ascension.pdf) ([accessible version](pathname:///storage/treaties/okashima-ascension-accessible.pdf)) allowing the Kingdom of Okashima to join as a non-autonomous town.

- Signed 24th August 2019
- The arrangements of the treaty were changed with [The Great Coup of Okashima](https://www.reddit.com/r/CivYoahtl/wiki/laws#wiki_.287rnh.29_the_great_coup_of_okashima=).

## ~~Treaty of Odresh~~

Yoahtl signed the [Treaty of Odresh](pathname:///storage/treaties/odresh-ascension.pdf) allowing Odresh to join as a non-autonomous town.

- Signed 28th August 2019

## ~~Merger with Vinland~~

Yoahtl signed the [Merger with Vinland](pathname:///storage/treaties/vinland-ascension.pdf) treaty allowing Vinland to join as an autonomous town.

- Signed 28th September 2019
- Voided 18th May 2020

## ~~Condemning Obby Bombing~~

Yoahtl signed the [International Resolution to Condemn Obsidian Bombing](pathname:///storage/treaties/condemning-obby-bombing.pdf) treaty.

- Signed 7th December 2019

## ~~Joining the UDF~~

Yoahtl agreed to the terms of the [Charter of the United Defense Front](pathname:///storage/treaties/united-defense-front.pdf).

- Signed 28th February 2020

## ~~Forum for International Diplomacy~~

Yoahtl signed the [Charter of the Forum for International Diplomacy](pathname:///storage/treaties/forum-for-international-diplomacy.pdf) treaty as a founding member.

- Signed 4th March 2020

## ~~Treaty of Terestai~~

Yoahtl signed the [Treaty of Terestai](pathname:///storage/treaties/ashelor-ascension.pdf) allowing Ashelor to join as a non-autonomous town.

- Signed 7th August 2020
- Voided 12th October 2020

## Regional Welfare, Development and Safety Treaty

Yoahtl signed the [Regional Welfare, Development and Safety Treaty](pathname:///storage/treaties/The-Grand-Imperium-Yoahtl-Regional-Welfare-Development-and-Safety-Treaty.pdf) treaty.

- Signed 23rd July 2022

## Sylvia Agreement

Yoahlt signed the [Sylvia Agreement](pathname:///storage/treaties/sylvia-agreement.pdf) treaty allowing the Sylvia Province to join Yoahtl.

- Signed 20th February 2023

## Treaty of Capitum

Yoahtl signed the [Treaty of Capitum](pathname:///storage/treaties/treaty-of-capitum.pdf) allowing Capitum to join as a homestead.

- Signed 21st March 2023

## Treaty of Exilus

Yoahtl signed the [Treaty of Exilus](pathname:///storage/treaties/treaty-exilus-incorperation.pdf) allowing Exilus to join as a homestead.

- Signed 2nd May 2023
